we now return to our public affairs
broadcasting of the House of
Representatives special committee
hearings where chairman Todd akin is
leading proceedings on accountability by
scientific experts welcome everybody to
this hearing held by the House Committee
on Science Space and Technology we're
here to discuss the recent case in which
six Italian seismologists were convicted
of manslaughter for downplaying the risk
of a major earthquake hitting the city
of La kila joining us today we over now
science educator activist and television
host Bill Nye Thank You mr. Aiken and
thank you to the committee it's a
pleasure to be here mr. Nye we've asked
you before this council is an expert
scientific community to provide
testimony for or against this verdict
and specifically to give your counsel as
to if the United States government
should take a similar stance against
misinformation by so-called experts in
the cases of Public Safety mr. Nye what
is your stance on this recent conviction
mr. Aiken I would like to go on the
record and say this case is a complete
insult to the scientific community no
earthquake prediction methods are exact
and all known statistics suggested that
an earthquake and lakyla was not
expected which is what the scientists
reported just because some wacko brick
did an earthquake doesn't mean that one
will occur bill bill bill bill bill nye
the science guy please keep your
personal opinions to yourself we're
discussing the science here with all due
respect you brought me here as an expert
to give my opinion but that may be mr.
Nye but let's move on the scientists
claim that there is no way to predict if
such an earthquake was going to hit the
city but isn't it true that in the case
of a legitimate earthquake scientists
can sense it coming and shut it down I'm
sorry what congressman what do you mean
by legitimate earthquake bill bill bill
bill try try and keep up with the
science here okay congressman why do you
keep saying my name like that I'm trying
to give you a serious opinion here there
are aspects of science that
it's rules what there are aspects of
science that are completely concreted
indisputable physics caverns all rules
of matter inertia is a property of
matter but earthquakes aren't exact the
only information that seismologist can
provide our estimates and warnings not
an exact schedule when earthquake is
going to occur that maybe mr. Nye but
aren't there specific things that us
humans can do to provoke an illegitimate
earthquake that scientists can't shut
down mr. Aiken I don't think you
understand what causes earthquakes isn't
this the committee on science or
something I know what you scientists
claim causes earthquakes but please
consider the following you scientists
are all making outrageous claims about
the earth global warming evolution
Bigfoot all these things are offending
poor mother earth mother earth gets
offended and when she gets offended she
gets mad and when she gets mad she
shakes with rage and add insult to
injury these stupid scientists are
claiming to be able to predict what she
mother earth does no no no no but that
just won't do I'm sorry congressman
taken can I be excused I don't think
this is productive for the country no
mr. Nye you may not be excused because
live from Braun auditorium it's Friday
night it's my
mr. McGuire Megan bonito
Scott embargo
Ross Moretti
pollen McKinley
Oh
you come home
Sweeney ramakrishnan
Brad Polanski
Olivia Hendrick and the Stanford
chemistry first year class
you